Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
adventure, sci-fi film called “Jumper.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
David Rice is a teenager living a normal life
in a small rural town. He talks to Millie,
a classmate whom he’s attracted to. David gives
Mille a snowglobe as a gift, and Millie accepts
it wholeheartedly. Another classmate,
Mark, intervenes and takes the gift away,
teasing David. Their classmate then throws the
snowglobe into the middle of a frozen lake,
and David attempts to retrieve it. Millie
tries to discourage him, but David continues.
David gets to the snowglobe, but the ice gives
way, and he falls under. Millie runs to help,
but David gets trapped under. The current
drags David farther, and there’s no chance
he can get back onto the surface. Suddenly, he
finds himself in the middle of the public library.
David is completely disorientated and in complete
confusion and shock but tries to walk out of the
library without arousing suspicion. David heads
home, and his father, William, notes that he’s
late. David lives alone with his father,
as his mother left him when he was a child.
William asks where David had
been, but he doesn’t answer.
William gets angry and chases David into his room.
David locks his room, but William tries to force
himself in. Just as William bursts in, David
disappears and reappears in the library again.
David realizes that his newfound ability could
be the key to a better life. He goes home and
takes out some money he’s saved. He decides
to move to a bigger city and start a new life.
David then tries to learn more about
his abilities by practicing at a park,
seeing if he can get better control of
his powers. He looks through a tourist
magazine and sees different tourist
attraction sites all over the world,
trying to teleport to those places. He sees
the Empire State Building and remembers being
there with his mother, Mary. Things in his room
suddenly start flying around, and he teleports
to the Empire State building. David then realizes
that he can only teleport to places he’s been to.
With no money, David decides to use his powers
to steal from a bank. He goes to a bank and
asks to use the bathroom, and as he makes his
way, he gets a glimpse of the interior of the
bank’s vault. That evening, David teleports into
the vault and takes as much money as he can.
He makes several trips, filling
up his bag with each return.
The following day, an investigation into the bank
robbery begins. Roland Cox appears and tells the
bank manager he works for the government.
He then requests all video surveillance
footage and the names of every person who
has entered the bank in the past month.
Roland notes that the bank vault had never
been opened, and authorities have no idea
how the robbery was performed. Roland
appears to have knowledge of people who
can teleport and theorizes that the theft
could have been committed by one of them.
Several years pass, and David now lives in
downtown New York at a penthouse apartment.
David lives in excess, having everything
he needs and doing whatever he wants.
His apartment is filled with pictures
of different locations around the world,
and he even has a secret room where he
keeps currencies from different countries.
David then teleports to a bar in
London, spotting a beautiful woman.
He teleports to her without caution,
and another person, Griffin,
sees him teleporting. He spends a night with
the girl, and the following day, he heads out
to Fiji to surf massive waves. He then heads
to Egypt, having lunch on top of the Sphinx.
In a tropical jungle, a man teleports,
trying to escape. He teleports through the
wilderness, but a cable is attached to him,
rendering him unable to leave. He gets stuck in a
tree, tangled in electrified wires. Roland appears
and walks up to him. The teleporter asks why
Roland has done this to him, and Roland tells
him that people who can teleport are abominations
and must be exterminated. He then stabs the man,
killing him. Roland then gets a phone call about
the robbery that occurred several years back.
David arrives back in New York at his
apartment and discovers Roland is there.
Roland tells David he’s investigating a
bank robbery, but he’s not from the police.
David asks Roland to leave, but Roland
instead takes a baton and electrocutes David.
David tries teleporting away but struggles to
get farther than a few meters. Roland runs up,
electrocuting David again and throwing him off
a ledge. Roland then shoots a cable, attaching
his baton to David. Roland attaches his baton
to the floor, and this anchors David, disabling
him from teleporting too far. David desperately
tries to escape, teleporting to a hidden room
in the wall and managing to cut off the cable.
David takes several bags of money and disappears.
He reappears back in his
father’s house in his old room.
William hears David arriving and rushes
to him. William begs David to stay,
telling David that he’s been unsure if
he’s going crazy on account of his son
disappearing. David then tells William he’s
not going crazy but disappears just as quickly.
The next day, David looks for Millie
and finds her working at a local bar.
He then runs into his old school
bully, Mark, and they get into a brawl.
David then ends up teleporting Mark
into a bank vault and leaving him there.
David returns to Millie, and the two catch up.
David tells Millie that he’s now in a banking
profession and asks Millie how she’s doing in
the small town. Millie says she still dreams of
traveling the world, and David offers her a trip
to Rome with him. Millie is ecstatic hearing this
and tells David she’d love to go with him.
Behind them, Griffin is watching closely.
A few hours later, David and Millie are
in Rome, going to see the Colosseum.
Meanwhile, Roland pretends to
work for the CIA to get to Mark,
who’s at a police station. He asks him
about what happened to him in the bank,
and Roland learns of Millie and finds
that she had just arrived in Rome.
In Rome, David and Millie are at an apartment
having a conversation about their lives and how
they’d both hold out for the last couple of years.
David and Millie then get romantic and share an
intimate moment, kissing passionately. Later that
day, David sneaks Millie into the Colosseum, and
they explore around, avoiding guards. David then
separates from Millie to open a locked door and
finally runs into Griffin. Griffin reveals himself
to be another person who can teleport, referring
to himself and others like him as jumpers.
Griffin calls David out for his lavish and
carefree lifestyle and tells him that a group of
people called paladins are determined to kill all
jumpers. Just as he explains, a pair of paladins
appear. The paladins approach and take out their
batons, and a fight breaks out. David tries to run
but gets snagged by one of the electrified cables.
His teleport ability is again disabled. Griffin
then proceeds to fight the two Paladins, quickly
overpowering them. He disables both pursuers and
tells David that he’s been killing paladins for a
long time. He then teleports away to his secret
lair. David sees a residue, called a jump scar,
from Griffin’s jump and follows. Griffin
warns him off, and David returns to Millie.
David then now takes Millie away,
leading her out of the Colosseum,
but Millie demands an explanation for what is
happening. Before David could start explaining,
the police arrive and arrest David for breaking
into the Colosseum. At the police station,
David is questioned but maintains that he’s only
a tourist who violated rules and is sorry for it.
The officers then leave David, telling him to
wait for the magistrate from the U.S. embassy.
As David waits, a woman enters, and David
recognizes it to be Mary, his mother. Mary
tells David he only has thirty seconds before
more paladins arrive and hands him a key to
his handcuffs. Mary hurries back out, and David
chases after her, but he loses her. David then
meets back up with Millie, and the two head for
the airport. At the airport, David tells Millie
that they have to separate. Millie is disappointed
to hear this but proceeds with her flight alone.
Meanwhile, Roland arrives at William’s house
and introduces himself as part of the IRS.
Roland asks about David, but William
is unwelcoming and uncooperative.
William tells Roland that he hasn’t seen David
for eight years. He also mentions how Mary left
him and David when David turned five. William
asks Roland to leave, but Roland refuses.
David arrives at Griffin’s hideout and
sees Griffin’s walls full of pictures
and information about paladins around the world.
David asks Griffin for an explanation
as to why paladins are killing jumpers,
and Griffin explains that the war has been going
on since the dark ages. According to Griffin, the
paladins are religious fanatics who believe that
the power to teleport should only lie with God.
He then tells David that paladins won’t
hesitate to kill anyone just to get to David.
Realizing his father and Millie could be in
trouble, David teleports to William and finds
him unconscious on the floor. He teleports them
to a hospital, and medical personnel rush to
help William. David returns to Griffin’s hideout
wanting to get more information on Roland as he
intends to kill him. Griffin says it’s useless as
he’s been tracking Roland for more than ten years,
and with each encounter, Griffin
only comes out with more scars.
David offers to help catch Roland, but Griffin
turns him down. Griffin then teleports to China,
but David follows, still trying to
convince Griffin to let him help.
Griffin finally agrees when David tells
him that he knows where Roland could
potentially turn up next, pertaining to Millie.
They decide to split up; David would
get Millie while Griffin heads back to
the hideout to arm himself. David arrives at
Millie’s apartment. Millie is surprised to see
David again and tells him that she doesn’t
want to be associated with him anymore.
Millie tells David to leave, but David
hears Roland and a few more men arriving.
With no other choice, David has to tell
Millie the truth, revealing himself as
a jumper. Millie is dumbfounded to witness
David’s powers and freaks out, running away.
Knowing danger is upon them, David grabs her
and teleports them both to Griffin’s hideout.
Roland and the other paladins enter Millie’s
apartment and see it empty, but Roland finds a
jump scar. They take out a contraption, setting it
below the jump scar, and a portal starts forming.
They’re attempting to reopen the jump
scar so that they can follow David.
David meets with Griffin, but Griffin is
outraged seeing Millie there with them.
Griffin tells David about the
paladins’ machine and says
bringing Millie to the hideout would
only lead the paladins right to them.
David and Griffin check on the jump scar and see
it getting larger. Seconds later, Roland appears.
David and Griffin hide, but as David hides,
he sees a picture of Mary on Griffin’s wall
of known paladins. David then gets tagged with
an electrified cable and is pinned to a wall.
Griffin comes in carrying a flamethrower.
Griffin and Roland then get into a fight
with Griffin using his teleporting
abilities to gain the upper hand.
Roland also puts up a good fight, utilizing the
paladins’ technology. Griffin punches Roland out
of the hideout and teleports away but returning
with a running bus aimed directly at Roland.
Roland has little time to react but
still manages to dodge the oncoming bus.
Millie finds David stuck to a wall,
and she tries to get him free,
but Roland appears ready to kill her. Millie
stands frozen, but Griffin appears again with
the flamethrower and blasts Roland back
into the jump scar. Griffin jumps in
after him. Roland and Griffin reappear back in
Millie’s apartment, and the fight continues.
Back in the hideout, Millie successfully frees
David but tells him that she wants to go home.
She doesn’t want to be involved in anything that’s
happening and just wants to get back to her normal
life. David is left with no choice and agrees. As
he prepares to take Millie back, Griffin reappears
successfully, carrying the paladins’ jump scar
opener. But with the jump scar still active,
the paladins still manage to launch a cable and
captures Millie, taking her back to the apartment.
David wants to rescue Millie, but Griffin
prepares a bomb. David is confused,
but Griffin tells him that this is his chance to
end the paladins once and for all. He intends to
teleport to the apartment with the bomb. David
protests and teleports away with the bomb.
Griffin chases after him, and the two end up
fighting, teleporting through many different
locations. They teleport to Egypt, San
Francisco, New York, all while fighting
for the bomb’s remote detonator. They end up
in a war-torn country, and Griffin finally
gets the detonator. But Griffin doesn’t
see that a pylon is falling on top of them.
David teleports Griffin into the pylon, letting
the massive amount of electricity capture Griffin,
pinning him down. Griffin tries to discourage
David into returning to the apartment, saying he
won’t stand a chance against five paladins,
but David is determined to rescue Millie.
David returns to the apartment and gets
to Millie but is immediately stung by
five electrified cables that the paladins
anchor to the apartment. David struggles,
still focusing on teleporting away. This
causes the entire apartment to shake violently.
With the wires attached to David and the
apartment, every time David tries to teleport,
the apartment also goes with him. He grunts and
shouts, and the apartment walls jolt and crack.
Finally, with one last push, he teleports the
entire apartment back to the lake, where he
discovered his abilities. Most of the paladins are
disabled, and some of them drown, and David then
teleports the apartment back to the library. David
regains consciousness and sees that Roland is
still alive. David then takes Roland and abandons
him somewhere in the middle of the Grand Canyon.
Time passes, and David locates his
mother. Mary’s daughter answers the door,
and David and Mary finally talk. Mary
explains that she’s also a paladin.
When David teleported for the first time
at the age of five, Mary made the difficult
decision to leave him to protect him from the
other paladins. Now that they’ve reunited,
David asks what would happen. Mary then
answers that she would give him a head start.
David then returns to Millie
waiting for him outside.
The two hold hands, smile at
each other and teleport away.